Thanks to a large number of innovations and societal effort, the average person today lives an objectively better life than any other time period in human history. Nowadays, most people have different career paths to choose from, many choices regarding where to live and also numerous little decisions to make on an everyday basis. Many argue that having this many options is not ideal and it is better if people didn't have to decide among this many choices.

For the most part of history up until very recently, most people around the world lived arguably monotonous lives. Almost all of them were farmers who tended to their crops all day everyday, spending most their lives behind this one task. Sources of entertainment in the pre-industrial age can be labeled as non-existent. The nature of the agricultural work demanded that the farmer stay at one place near the crop fields, resulting in no vacation or travelling throughout their lives. A simple life without many choices like this, is what some people argue a purer form of living.

In contrast, modern times have given us an overwhelmingly large number of choices in every circumstance possible. While most people had to pick up farming in the past, now we have a plethora of jobs to choose from. Even in education, many people get to decide what or where they want to study. Dissimilar to the confinement of a single place of living in the agricultural age, people now can choose to move to a different town or city in search of a better life. In every aspect of our lives, we have ton of options to choose from, which can be nerve wrecking for a lot of people. The uncertainty aspect of the decisions makes them even more burdensome to such a point that people say that this is not a healthy way to live and having fewer options tend to lead to a happier life.

In my opinion, I do not agree with the statement that having too many choices is worse than not having alternatives. Although making a lot of decisions comes with a lot of caveats, through careful inspection and setting realistic goals, I believe we can make the most of the choices we are presented with, which is definitely a better way to live than having no power of choosing alternative paths.